muestra de color Pro is a professional grade sistema de diseño muestra de color componente that you can use to documentar all of your colores in Figma.
Hasta este mes, habría tomado horas to get muestra de color Pro applied to all of your sistema de diseño colores.
Pero ahora with Claude and the Figma MCP server, podemos automatizar todo el proceso en solo unos minutos.
Y voy a mostrarte cómo construir a great looking sistema de diseño paleta de colores documentation set of colores en solo unos minutos.
Lo primero que debes hacer is ir a the Figma community Look for ColorSwatch Pro and comprar el archivo.
Es una $29 compra, pero lo que estoy a punto de mostrarte en este video te va a ahorrar horas de trabajo.
Así que ya tendrás retorno de inversión on your compra al final de este video.
Una vez que descargues ColorSwatch Pro, verás dentro del archivo, there is a Fig blog.
There's a ejemplo of the paleta de colores that we're going to create.
y luego está the color componente en sí.
Haré otro video that covers all of the diferentes opciones that you have disponibles in this paleta de colores, but to give you a sense of it,
puedes cambiar from WCAG to APCA, niveles de contraste, And puedes configurar in the componente si the color contrast is suitable for various tamaños de texto
or meets double or triple A estándares.
También puedes personalizarlo to show and hide your colores in modo oscuro.
And if you want to, or if you're using sistema de diseño or design tokens, you can also indicate the modo claro and modo oscuro token.
And all of that can be automated with Claude.
So let's just jump in and get started.
Once you have ColorSwatch Pro added to your Figma account, we're going to create a new documentar and you can import ColorSwatch Pro as a published design
system componente, or you can simply come in here and grab the componente en sí, paste it into your file.
And then I'm just going to call this componente and then I'm going to create a new page.
I'm going to call it colores.
So right now I don't have any colores in this file.
My sistema de diseño doesn't have any colores.
The first thing I need to do is create a set of colores.
And we're going to use Claude for that.
So you'll need to have the Figma console server installed.
Next thing we need to do is connect our file to Claude and we do that with the Figma console bridge.
So you'll need to go up to plugins and then manage plugins and look for Figma desktop bridge and install that.
Once it's installed click on it to open it and now that Figma MCP is ready we can hop into Claude.
I've created a brand new Claude project and your Claude might have some memories in it.
So the way these prompts work in your version of Claude might be a little bit different than mine.
But what I'm going to do is show you just a series of five prompts that you can use to go from no color palettes to a professional grade paleta de colores
using Claude to automate the configuration of ColorSwatch Pro.
So the first thing we need to do is create some colores.
I'm gonna start with a brand primary and a neutral paleta de colores.
So we need to prompt Claude to do that.
And the first thing we need to do is make sure that Claude can actually see our file.
We'll just confirm that Claude and Figma are talking.
And so let's just name this, I'm gonna name this sistema de diseño.
And now that I have the file named, I'll go back to Claude.
And I'm going to ask it, can you see the file sistema de diseño?
Claude will check just to see that it's able to access the file.
So sometimes it takes Figma a little bit of time to update the file name.
Claude does see it.
It still sees the file named untitled instead of sistema de diseño.
But I feel confident now that we can get going.
It does see the page name colores here.
So it lets me know that Claude does see the file that I'm currently working in.
So the first thing we need to do is put in a prompt, create a set of color variables in a new collection called primitives.
The first color is brand primary with a 500 value of HSL 245, 5250. The second color, create a second color for neutral with a 500 value of 245, 450. Create 2550, 100
to 400, then 600 to 900 and 950, where 25 to 400 are tints and 600 to 950 are shades.
I'm just going to send this in and Claude is going to understand the prompt and then what I'll do is I'll open up variables over here in Figma and you'll
see there's nothing in here so there's no variables created.
Back in Claude it's starting to do the work.
And this is pretty fast.
If you're creating dozens or more color palettes, it's still pretty quick.
And I did this the first time on the free version of Claude.
So you can actually go through this entire process using the free version of Claude, but I am on the pro level Claude right now.
It's created 24 color variables.
It's given me a summary of what's happened here.
And so if I go into variables, you'll now see that I have my brand primary variables ready to go and I have my neutral variables ready to go.
Okay, so that's complete, great.
Now, what I'm gonna do is take this muestra de color componente and I'm gonna add it to my colores page.
Let's zoom this out a little bit.
Now we're going to tell Claude to use this componente to documentar all of the colores that we just created.
So here comes prompt number two, also disponibles in the video description.
Here's prompt number two.
Use the componente muestra de color to create a muestra de color for each variable in primitives.
Fill the layer color with the variable's color value.
muestra de color has a hex and HSL color values.
Please fill that in for each linked color variable.
If we hop back into Figma, we can see that right now there's just this one muestra de color componente on the stage.
And as Claude begins to catch up with the prompt, you'll see that the rest of the components get built out.
So let's head back to Claude and see what it's doing.
It's going to ask me to allow, so you might just have to allow Claude to access your files initially.
It is now looking at the components.
Claude is now understanding how the componente is built.
And there's a lot to that componente.
And you'll see in a moment that we can prompt Claude to use all of the features without having to go in and click and update componente property.
Claude now understands how the componente works.
which is incredible.
It probably would take you 15 to 20 minutes just to understand everything you can do in the componente, which is why I put some documentation in the Fig
blog page that comes with ColorSwatch Pro.
While Claude is churning and creating assets for me in Figma, I'm usually working on something else, so I'm not going to typically be sitting here watching.
I just kind of let it happen in the background and I'll check in on it from time to time.
But it really is very fast after it gets the initial componente created.
To give you an idea, And wow, just like that, the palette is now created.
So you can see I've got all of my tints, all of my shades, and the documentation has been updated.
The next thing I want to do is utilize the contrast and accessibility settings.
So each componente has a WCAG or APCA color contrast rating.
It also has modo claro and modo oscuro and it has a lot of different settings for pass or fail if you toggle into APCA.
So what I'm going to do is now ask Claude to check all the colores, check their contrast, update the contrast rating, and then update the pass fail toggles
for all of the APCA tamaños de texto.
So the next prompt we need which is disponibles in the video description is this one here.
I'm saying next I want to update the color APCA contrast value for each color and set pass fail for large text, fluent text,
body text, and preferred text.
The muestra de color componente has a layer named 00, replace that with the APCA value, then toggle each componente property true or false based on the APCA value.
For example, if the APCA value is greater than 90, set these to pass, large text, fluid text, body text, and preferred text.
Match the pass fail property setting for each color based on the APCA value.
So what Claude is doing is understanding that prompt and what you're going to see happen here is that these are going to switch from WCAG,
which is the current standard color contrast rating, into APCA.
So WCAG 2.0 or 2 point something is the current standard.
WCAG 3.0 is going to adopt APCA.
So this muestra de color Pro componente is built for now, but you can start working in the future with APCA and update your colores today from scratch using
Claude so that you'll be ready when the new standard rolls over.
So let's check in and see what Claude is doing.
It's exploring each variant in detail.
This used to take me at least 20 to 25 minutes for each color to go in, click on the color, open Starks contrast rating tool,
check WCAG, and then flip over to APCA if I want to and check the APCA rating.
Then I would have to go into each color and update the values.
I'd have to then go in and toggle on and off the true false for the pass rating, and all of that can now be automated.
So Claude's thinking about it.
You're going to see these switch from the WCAG default to APCA.
And while it's doing that, let's explore the componente a little bit more.
So here you can zoom in and take a look at this while Claude's working in the background.
This is the WCAG version.
If you flip over to APCA, It gives you the same name, color area, and hex and HSL values, but what APCA does is it gives you four different types of text.
So what you want is for this color up here to have a contrast that's higher than 45, 60, 75, or 90 if you want to use that for white or black text on top
of the color background that you're using.
So Claude has gone through and updated all of the colores now.
So one of them it's missed for some reason.
So sometimes I think it's probably just using the original paleta de colores, the original color here.
We'll worry about this in a second.
So it's important just to move ahead, keep updating the palette and we'll get Claude to clean this up as we go.
So this is the first time I've set it up.
Technically, there's some things in here like these negative values.
They can be cleaned up, but we're going to go into the next prompt.
Okay, so now Claude has updated all of the swatches per the recommendation.
It's switched them into APCA mode.
It's checked the contrast of the color.
And as you can see, it hasn't quite optimized them yet for optimal accessibility.
So some of these are black text on a dark background.
So the next prompt is gonna tell Claude to put on its accessibility hat and update these color swatches for optimal contrast.
Back in Claude, we're gonna go into prompt number four, which is disponibles in the video description.
And now we're gonna tell Claude that we need to adjust each swatch for better contrast.
We need to tell it about how to do that.
So I've instructed it to look at the swatch componente and look for the property for modo oscuro.
It says by default, it's in modo claro.
Update each swatch to dark where it increases potential use cases for each color.
Please update the APCA value and the pass fail values for all swatches that are changed to modo oscuro.
So Claude is looking at those directions.
It's thinking about it.
You're going to see back here in Figma that these files that are dark text on a dark background are going to be updated to update a more optimal contrast rating.
And then we can see we still have a WCAG componente for some reason.
So each time you do this, it's gonna get better.
The first time I did this, it worked flawlessly.
So everybody's experience is gonna be a little bit different, but you can see we're making a huge amount of progress.
And en solo unos minutos, Claude's taking care of things that would have taken 30 minutes to 45 minutes at this point.
So Claude is still thinking.
We'll see in the background that this will update in a moment.
Let's hop back over to the componente and I'm going to walk through some of the features that are disponibles here.
So in the APCA setting.
If this color has a contrast rating that is 75 but not 90, then what we could do is manually toggle the fail off since it passes for those colores.
But if it's not hitting a 90, then we leave that as a fail.
And we could also click on this and update all of the values here by hand.
So this is the APCA contrast rating.
This is the name.
So you can type in here, whatever you want.
You can type in the 500 value.
You can totally use this and do this by hand.
And it's still incredibly powerful.
Let's check in and see what Claude's doing.
It's still thinking it's making some updates.
I think some of these colores are already being optimized.
So down here we can see that it's switched from the dark text on the dark background to light text in the light background.
It's updating the pass fail ratings for all of the components.
So we're making a lot of progress here.
You can imagine just looking at the level of detail that you have to configure for each of these components, how long it would take for you just to kind
of update each one.
So Claude is churning through pretty quickly.
It's still thinking.
It's updating a few things.
It's actually correcting en sí, which is pretty awesome.
We've now got some components.
It looks like Claude is now complete with that prompt.
So Claude's finished the work.
Now we're going to tell Claude to clean up these color palettes using auto layout.
Back in Claude, we're gonna go into prompt number five, which is disponibles in the video description.
Let's paste that in.
So now we're telling Claude to wrap each of the color sets in a wrapper, apply 24 pixels of padding and 24 pixels of gap for the auto layout.
We're also asking it to add a card at the beginning of the color set with a title and a description.
And it will do a pretty good job of writing a description of how the color should be used.
But if you already have a brand or style guide, you could copy and paste that text in.
This is just gonna get you 90% of the way to being done.
So it's still thinking about it.
We'll see here in the background in just a moment that it's going to wrap the color in an auto layout and space everything out.
And then at that point, maybe we need to do a little manual cleanup or we'll figure out where the extra elements have been added.
So let's just check in on the File, it's updating it.
There you go.
It's all been updated now Each time this gets a little bit different.
This is still pretty cool So it added a color chip here so you can prompt it to do things more exact I tend to let it do things and then learn how to improve
the prompt as I go So things are looking pretty good.
I only see one potential problem right now is that the first color, the 25 value for some reason is not using the APCA color model.
So we're going to update that.
And then I can see that the color has not been named correctly.
So I'm going to have it update the name here.
So we don't have to do that either.
And if we scroll down here, It looks like there's maybe an extra color here, like there's like a mismatch in the total number of colores.
But first, let's fix this issue.
So the 25 value muestra de color in brand primary needs to match the APCA color model.
So let's quickly tell Claude to do that.
Okay, that's a pretty quick update, so let's just watch and see how long it takes Claude to do something simple like that.
You can combine this type of prompt, like a quick fix prompt, into a more complicated prompt, but I find it's better just to use simple multi-step prompts
instead of putting everything into one prompt, so you can sort of, it lets you spot the errors as they come.
Okay, so this is great.
Now, the next thing I'm going to do, and you can be very specific about this, I could come in here and I could tell it that the name layer is called name
and the value layer is called pound pound.
Let's just see if Claude's smart enough to figure out how to update the componente.
So I'm going to ask it to update the name and the value based on the color variance name.
So I've told Claude to update the name and color value for each color using the primitive name.
It should know well enough to go into the color variables, look and see which colores being used in the muestra de color Pro componente and update the names accordingly.
And it did.
So this is, this is done.
This is essentially ready to go for production.
And now the, the last thing is these color tokens.
Within any color, let's say that this is maybe a secondary button background color you're using.
You could tell Claude to update these token layers for modo claro to be button background dark.
or button background light.
And so you might not need these, but if you do need them in the paleta de colores, you can turn them off or on.
So I can turn off token one, token two.
I can also say token ones for modo oscuro or modo claro.
But for now, I don't need these.
So I'm just gonna tell Claude to turn off the tokens.
Then I'll be finished with my paleta de colores and I can move on to something else.
So telling Claude to turn off the token values and this is something you could easily do.
But just as I would start coming in here and toggling off this one and this one and then I go here or maybe because of the way this is built I could click
into all of them and turn them off fairly quickly.
But why not just have Claude do it.
And now we have a fully documented muestra de color probe based paleta de colores.
Come in here double check everything make sure everything is the way that you think it needs to be.
This looks pretty good to me.
This used to take 30 to 45 minutes just to do this level of detail.
So I hope you found this useful.
I'll do some more videos on more things you can do with Claude and ColorSwatch Pro.
I'll also do another video which might be disponibles by the time you're watching this for how to get Claude and Figma connected using Figma console MCP server.
It's fairly straightforward, but most of the videos and the tutorials I've seen for it miss out a few steps that are probably gonna get you stuck.
So stay tuned for that or look for more videos in the current playlist you're watching.
Thanks for watching.
Share this video with anybody you think might benefit from it.
And I'd love to hear down in the comments if you're running into trouble or if you came up with a really clever way to use ColorSwatch Pro that we haven't
thought of yet in this video.
Happy designing and good luck.